[Music]
[Applause]
so for any of us in this room today
let's start out by admitting we're lucky
we don't live in the world our mothers
lived in our grandmothers lived in where
career choices for women were so limited
and if you're in this room today most of
us grew up in world where we have basic
civil rights and amazingly we still live
in a world where some women don't have
them but all that aside we still have a
problem and it's a real problem and the
problem is this women are not making it
to the top of any profession anywhere in
the world the numbers tell the story
quite clearly 190 heads of state 9 or
women of all the people in parliaments
in the world
13% are women in the corporate sector
women at the top c-level jobs board
seats tops out at 15 16 % the numbers
have not moved since 2002 and are going
in the wrong direction even in the
nonprofit world a world we sometimes
think of as being led by more women
women at the top 20% we also have
another problem which is that women face
harder choices between professional
success and personal fulfillment a
recent study in the u.s. showed that of
senior managers of married senior
managers two-thirds of the married men
had children and only one-third of the
married women had children couple of
years ago I was in New York and I was
pitching a deal and I was in one of
those fancy New York private equity
offices you can picture and I'm in the
meeting it's about a three hour meeting
and two hours in there's kind of needs
to be that bio break and everyone stands
up and the partner running the meeting
starts looking really embarrassed and I
realize he doesn't know where the
women's room is in his office so I start
looking around for moving boxes figuring
they just moved in but I don't see any
and so I said so did you just move into
this office and he said no we've been
here about a year and I said are you
telling me that I am the only woman to
have pitched a deal in this
this in a year and he looked at me and
he said yeah or maybe you're the only
one who had to go to the bathroom so the
question is how are we gonna fix this
how do we change these numbers at the
top how do we make this different I want
to start out by saying I talked about
this about keeping women in the
workforce because I really think that's
the answer in the high-income part of
our workforce in the people who end up
at the top fortune 500 CEO jobs or the
equivalent in other industries the
problem I am convinced is that women are
dropping out now people talk about this
a lot and they talk about things like
flex time and mentoring and programs
companies should have to train women I
want to talk about none of that today
even though that's all really important
today I want to focus on what we can do
as individuals what are the messages we
need to tell ourselves what are the
messages we tell the women that work
with and for us what are the messages we
tell our daughters now at the outset I
want to be very clear that this speech
comes with no judgments I don't have the
right answer I don't even have it for
myself I left San Francisco where I live
on Monday and I was getting on the plane
for this conference and my daughter
who's 3 when I dropped her off at
preschool did that whole hugging the leg
crying mom you don't get on the plane
thing this is hard I feel guilty
sometimes I know no women whether
they're at home or whether they're in
the workforce that don't feel that
sometimes so I'm not saying that staying
in the workforce is the right thing for
everyone my talk today is about what the
messages are if you do want to stay in
the workforce and I think there are 3-1
sit at the table to make your partner a
real partner and 3 look at that
don't leave before you leave number one
sit at the table just a couple weeks ago
at Facebook we hosted a very senior
government official and he came in to
meet with senior execs from around
Silicon
and everyone kind of sat at the table
and then he had these two women who were
travelling with him who are pretty
senior in his department and I kind of
said to them sit at the table can't sit
at the table and they sat on the side of
the room when I was in college my senior
year I took a course called European
intellectual history don't you love that
kind of thing from college wish I could
do that now and I took it with my
roommate Carrie who was then a brilliant
literary student and went on to be a
brilliant literary scholar and my
brother smart guy but a water polo
playing pre-med who was a sophomore but
three of us take this class together and
then Carrie reads all the books in the
original creeks in Latin goes to all the
lectures I read all the books in English
and go to most of the lectures my
brother is kind of busy he reads one
book of 12 and goes to a couple of
lectures marches himself up to our room
a couple days before the exam to get
himself tutor the three of us go to the
exam together and we sit down and we
study you know sit there for three hours
and our little blue notebooks yes I'm
that old and we walk out we look at each
other and we say how'd you do and Carrie
says boy I feel like I didn't really
draw out the main point on the Hegelian
dialectic and I say God I really wish I
had really connected John Locke's theory
of property the Philosopher's that
follow and my brother says I got the top
grade in the class you got the top grade
in the class you don't know anything the
problem with these stories is that
should they show what the data shows
women systematically underestimate their
own abilities if you test men and women
and you ask them questions on totally
objective criteria like GPAs men get it
wrong slightly high and women get it
wrong slightly low women do not
negotiate for themselves in the
workforce a study in the last two years
of people entering the workforce out of
college showed that 57 percent of boys
entering or men I guess are negotiating
their first salary and only 7 percent of
women and most importantly men attribute
their success to themselves and women
tributed two other external factors if
you ask men why they did a good job
they'll say I'm awesome if you ask
obviously why are you even asking if you
ask women why they did a good job what
they'll say is someone help them they
got lucky they worked really hard why
does this matter boy it matters a lot
because no one gets to the corner office
by sitting on the side not at the table
and no one gets the promotion if they
don't think they deserve their success
or they don't even understand their own
success I wish the answer were easy I
wish I could just go tell all the young
women I work for all these fabulous
women believe in yourself negotiate for
yourself own your own success I wish I
could tell that to my daughter
but it's not that simple because what
the data shows above all else is one
thing which is that success and
likeability are positively correlated
for men and negatively correlated for
women and everyone's nodding because we
all know this to be true there's a
really good study that shows this really
well there's a famous Harvard Business
School study on a woman named Heidi
Roizen and she's a operator in a venture
capital company in Silicon Valley and
she uses her contacts to become a very
successful venture capitalist in 2002
not so long ago a professor who was then
at Columbia University took that case
and made it Heidi Roizen and he gave
that case out both of them to two groups
of students
he changed exactly one word Heidi to
Howard but that one word made a really
big difference
he then surveyed the students and the
good news was the students both men and
women thought Heidi and Howard were
equally competent in maths good the bad
news was that everyone liked Howard he's
a great guy you want to work for him you
want to spend the day fishing with him
but Heidi not so sure she's a little out
for herself she's a little political
you're not sure you'd want to work for
her this is the complication we have to
tell our daughter and our colleagues we
have to tell ourselves to believe we got
the a to reach for the promotion to sit
at the table and we have to do it in a
world where for them there
sacrifices they will make for that even
though for their brothers there will not
the saddest thing about all of us is
that it's really hard to remember this
and I'm about to tell a story which is
truly embarrassing for me but I think
important I gave this talk at Facebook
not so long ago to about a hundred
employees and a couple hours later there
was a young woman who works there
sitting kind of outside my little desk
and she wanted to talk to me and I said
okay and she sat down and we talked and
she said I learned something today I
learned that I need to keep my hand up I
said what do you mean she said well
you're giving this talk and then you
said you're gonna take two more
questions and I had my hand up with lots
of other people and then you took two
more questions and I put my hand down
and I noticed all the women put their
hand down and then you took more
questions only from the men and I
thought to myself wow if it's me who
cares about this obviously giving this
talk during this talk I can't even
notice that the men's hands are still
raised and the women's hands are still
raised how good are we as managers of
our companies and our organizations at
seeing that the men are reaching for
opportunities more than women we've got
to get women to sit at the table message
number two make your partner a real
partner I've become convinced that we've
made more progress in the workforce than
we have in the home the data shows this
very clearly if a woman and a man work
full-time and have a child the woman
does twice the amount of housework the
man does and the woman does three times
the amount of childcare the man does so
she's got three jobs or two jobs and
he's got one who do you think it drops
out when someone needs to be home or the
cause of the vist are really complicated
and I don't have time to go into them
and I don't think Sunday football
watching and general laziness is the
cause I think the cause is more
complicated I think as a society we put
more pressure on our boys to succeed
than we do on our girls I know men that
stay home and work in the home to
support wives with careers and it's hard
when I go to
mommy-and-me stuff and I see the father
there I noticed that the other mommies
don't play with him and that's a problem
because we have to make it as important
a job because it's the hardest job in
the world
to work inside the home for people of
both genders if we're gonna even things
out and let women stay in the workforce
studies show that households with equal
earning and equal responsibilities also
have half the divorce rate and if that
wasn't good enough motivation for
everyone out there they also have more
how shall I say this on this stage they
know each other more in the biblical
sense as well message number three don't
leave before you leave I think there's a
really deep irony to the fact that
actions women are taking and I see this
all the time with the objective of
staying in the workforce actually lead
to their eventually leaving here's what
happens we're all busy everyone's busy a
woman's busy and she starts thinking
about having a child and from the moment
she starts thinking about having a child
she starts thinking about making room
for that child how am I gonna fit this
into everything else I'm doing and
literally from that moment she doesn't
raise her hand anymore she doesn't look
for a promotion she doesn't take on the
new project she doesn't say me I want to
do that she starts leaning back the
problem is that let's say she got
pregnant that day that day nine months
of pregnancy three months of maternity
leave six months to catch her breath
fast-forward two years more often and as
I've seen it women start thinking about
this way earlier when they get engaged
when they get married when they start
thinking about trying to have a child
which didn't take a long time one woman
came to see me about this and I kind of
looked at her she looked at all young
and I said so are you and your husband
thinking about having a baby and she
said oh no I'm not married she didn't
even have a boyfriend
I said you're thinking about this just
way too early but the point is that what
happens once you start kind of quietly
leaning back everyone who's been through
this and I'm here to tell you once you
have a child at home your job better be
really good to go back because it's hard
to leave that kid at home your job needs
to be challenging it needs to be
rewarding you need to feel like you're
making a difference and if two years ago
you didn't take a promotion and some guy
next to you did if three years ago you
stopped looking for new opportunities
you're gonna be bored because you should
have kept your foot on the gas pedal
don't leave before you leave stay and
keep your foot on the gas pedal until
the very day you need to leave to take
to take a break for a child and then
make your decisions don't make decisions
too far in advance particularly ones
you're not even conscious you're making
my generation really sadly is not going
to change the numbers at the top they're
just not moving we are not going to get
over 50% of the population in my
generation there will not be 50% of
people at the top of any industry but
I'm hopeful that future generations can
I think a world that was run where half
of our countries and half of our
companies were run by women would be a
better world and it's not just because
people would know where the women's
bathroom are even though that would be
how it very helpful I think it would be
a better world I have two children I
have a five-year-old son and a
two-year-old daughter I want my son to
have a choice to contribute fully in the
workforce or at home and I want my
daughter to have the choice to not just
succeed but to be liked for her
accomplishments thank you
[Applause]
[Music]
sharing that's video on the human
Network Cisco welcome to the human
Network